>> Steve Kinney: I need to talk
to my Mac users for a second.
There are, if you kind of even
go here you can see there's
a lot of F12,
F8 there's some F2 kind of stuff.
You have those keys on your keyboard.
What happens if you press one?
Brightness will go up and down, or
your sound will turn on and off, and
stuff along those lines.
You can switch that in Mac OS,
if you go into the system settings,
go to keyboard shortcuts,
go to function keys, and
you can do, hey, I want them to
just be function keys, right?
And now, before you have that
FN key on your keyboard,
before it was gonna be brightness up and
down, and if you held FN, it would be F1,
F2, now the opposite is true.
If you just touch the key,
then it is now F1 if you need to
change the brightness hold function.
I think for the average person,
they want the keys with the brightness.
For us as developers,
I want my F1 key back, please.
So that is a little trick that you can
do to have your regular keys back.
There are a few this kind of blends
a section where we call navigation,
but a little bit of
the refactoring stuff as well,
because they are kind of tied together.
Which is we've got a bunch of
various things that we can do.
One of which, and
these are again, very helpful for
kind of navigating our code as well.
If we take a given function,
if we right click on it,
you can see that we've
got some options here.
We've got go to definition, what this
is the definition of the function add.
You can also go to References, and
this is where it is being used.
Usually you want the opposite,
which is, I've got this ad now,
not particularly compelling.
We all can kind of guess
what an add function does.
But you can also kind of go to References
or the Definition in this case,
which, depending on your language,
they might be the same thing, right?
Java, it's gonna get a little more
nuanced a lot of cases, the reference and
the definition are the same.
And you can jump back and forth.
The other thing you can do is, if you go
down to any given one of these functions,
right, if you command click,
you will also jump to that.
This works if it's in
a different file as well.
Also super useful if you're writing
Typescript and it's, it's this type.
What is this type, right?
You can a lot of times
command click on the type and
go see the type definition as well.
So incredibly useful,
you don't have to know where that is.
It could be down so
far deep in node modules that you never
thought you'd have to journey in there.
And you don't even know where the file is,
right?
But in a lot of cases you will go ahead
and it will go ahead and find it for
you, which is super useful a lot,
I will instinctively do it
a number of the times as well.
>> Speaker 2: What's command key for
that one?
I used that one all the time.
>> Steve Kinney: So
you've got the choice of F12 or whatever.
For me personally,
is I just command click.
It's probably Ctrl+Click on windows.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, and it will jump
right into it for you and kinda go back
and forth from a reference of it being
used to this file to the implementation.
If there are other options in a bigger
file, you'll see, kind of you'll get
llittle sneak peeks of where it might be,
and you can kind of jump to the right one.
I instinctively use that one all the time.
Other one that I use an actual ton.
What's the old joke?
The the hardest problems in
computer science are naming things,
cache and validation and
off by one errors.
A lot of times I am working on something
and I no longer the name of this function.
Or I no longer whatever, the variable,
what have you, and I need to change it.
Now, I do not, find and
replace is fraught with peril, right?
Because, if that's inside of another word,
right?
For instance, if I just tried to find and
replace all ads,
I would also change async ad as well.
And who knows where else I would the
amount of chaos that I have caused with
an overzealous Find and
Replace cannot be understated.
I have caused more damage with Find and
Replace than any other thing
in my entire programming life.
This is the one that I use honestly
every day which is if you hit F2,
you can rename a function variable and
throughout,
especially if you're using
something with a language server.
So TypeScript, Python,
most languages, unless,
it's your own homegrown language or
whatever, most languages as long as.
If you're using Zig installzigextension,
that's the only thing, right?
You know what I mean?
But for most major languages, you can go
ahead and it will use the language server
where if you look, I can hover over this,
I get js.forit, same over here.
If you hit F2.
>> Steve Kinney: And
either place honestly, you can go ahead,
let's call it sum now.
And throughout my entire code base,
all references to the add function
are now called sum, right?
And I can do a major refactor
throughout my entire code base and
it will be renamed everywhere,
not through find and replace.
But through that actual mechanism of go
from the implementation to the reference.
Knowing that and knowing the type and
all those things,
it will just do that all for me.
If we don't believe me,
we can close this terminal.
It's taken up a lot of room cuz I
also have my font up very high.
It has been changed to sum, right?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: In that context menu for
things sum,
there's a definition and
a go to source definition.
Should I worry about those at all?
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, some of them,
I can't always remember the difference,
especially if you just use Command click.
I don't even see them most the time.
I think four things where your type and
your class might be in
totally separate things.
I'm thinking about Java in this case,
right?
I think that there's more nuance to
that in TypeScript, it doesn't really.
Or it might be if I had a type separate
from the actual implementation,
those separate in a lot of cases.
If there is more than one,
a lot of times that Cmd+Click will
show you a menu when we get into,
a slightly bigger app, and you can kinda
see where they are and peek at them.
A lot of times you get enough
context clues as well.
Other things in terms of navigation is,
you can see you have these breadcrumbs up
here which are, we saw that go to file and
we also had that go to symbol, right?
So again, that symbol,
that same ability you had to jump between
symbols is what's powering
that renamed symbol, right?
And so it knows,
kind of what the name of this one is.
I go down to subtract.
You can see a change to subtract.
I can see what file I'm in.
I can kind of navigate to
things around that as well and
find myself in different places.
How often do I do that?
Not that often usually,
I'm trying to jump to a particular symbol.
A lot of times, I'm jumping around my code
base without really paying attention to
what files I'm in, right?
Obviously I look and I care, right?
But I'm usually tracking out, that React
component is defined in this file.
I need to go see the props, right?
Or I need to change something about
that reaction component that I'm using.
And you can kind of take
the place you're working and
jump to the next place as well.
But yeah,
that F2 worth its weight in gold.
Probably, and again, it will update
imports in different files as well.
It will any place that the thing
would have been referenced,
it will change the name.
It has a few things that
I don't particularly,
which is sometimes it will try
to alias the various things.
I'll show you, if I go here and
let's say I hit F2,
and I just want to call it add,
or let's call it
asyncSum,
>> Steve Kinney: Right,
it's gonna alias it for me, right?
Cuz I didn't change it in the actual file,
I changed the import.
But you can see throughout
the rest of this file,
it did change it to asyncSum everywhere,
right?
So, now I'm importing two
things that have the same name.
I need to change one of them.
I don't have to sit there and
do it by hand, I hit one button,
I give it its new name.
However, put that back, we'll go in here,
and we'll change it over in here.
The actual one that we'll hit,
>> Steve Kinney: And if we go
back into this file, you can see that it
did change the imports everywhere, right?
And so now I can do large changes
a lot of times, obviously,
changing add to some cute, but a react
component or something along those lines.
Or a given helper method that now maybe
does something slightly different, or
I named it poorly in the first place,
because sometimes you don't
actually know what you're doing.
You're still flailing around a little bit.
You can just easily
change it everywhere and
again throughout your code base, right?
And this feature we'll kind of see later,
works super well you can,
particularly in TypeScript, rename a file,
or move a file into another directory,
and it will update all the imports
everywhere for you, right?
A lot of just really stuff
that would have been, yeah,
just 20 minutes of my life down the drain.
Not terrible, but real annoying
on the grand scheme of things.
Other quick tricks, in terms of just
navigating within a given file,
is you've got this outline here, which is,
it'll be a little bit different for
every given language.
For instance, in a markdown file,
it'll be your headings.
And here you can kind of just see
the various pieces of your application.
You've got A, you've got B,
if we went over into this math,
you can see I've got the various pieces.
And again,
this is all the language server,
which there are a bunch of them built in.
TypeScript, for instance,
is built in, JavaScript is built in.
But if you're using, again, Rust, you
just grab usually an official extension.
Not everything is included, but there are
a lot of times Microsoft makes extensions
and there'll be a language server for
that as well.
My day job is in Svelte, right, which is
a JavaScript framework that has its own
language server so
that I can navigate and jump around.
So if you find that these
features are not working for you,
just make sure you have the right
extension that adds that support,
and if that's if that doesn't exist,
well, you have two choices.
Write your own or deal with it.
Deal with it is probably the better the
two choices cuz writing a language server
is a full day in alpha itself.
Let's just put it that way.
But yeah.
So yeah, trying to think if
there's any other major things
we said before Cmd+P to jump to
a file as well, Cmd+Shift+O for that.
In this case,
I can see the ones in this file, but
I could even jump to something,
any function I wanna look and
know the name of, I could hit Cmd+Shift+O,
try to jump for it.
You can see this is at symbol.
So again, if you don't even remember
Cmd+Shift+O, you only remember
the regular command palette,
which is me for me for three years.
You can just open the regular command
palette, change that to an add symbol and
you're good to go.
Or in this case,
the colon will be a line jump.
This will just be a file.
As long as you can get this thing open,
you can usually figure out the thing
you actually intended to do and
be okay with that in the beginning.
Honestly, it's not that bad.
Cuz you know you're in the wrong one and
then you just realize you need to do that,
it's fine.
Cool, so yeah, there's a bunch of
other ways to navigate around but
those are the major and important ones and
again, F2, worth its weight in gold.
>> Speaker 2: Do you know the difference
between change all occurrences and
rename symbol?
>> Steve Kinney: No.
>> Steve Kinney: I don't.
>> Speaker 2: In theory, there's thoughts
it might mean one might be within the same
one file kind of just a file.
>> Steve Kinney: That is probably
like that when it changed it to an as
versus the other thing, right, as well.
>> Speaker 2: And with go to definition,
is there a way to set it up
to work across languages?
If the same repo has both
a client project that's consuming
an API from a backend language
could go to definition,
jump to that API endpoints definition.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's go with a strong,
maybe, I think that, for
instance, if they're all in TypeScript,
right?
Yes, if one is in Javascript and
one is in Go, maybe?
Probably not, is it possible, yes, need
some way to associate those things, right?
And can the languages themselves do that
with the two language servers probably.
Is your code base really set up for that?
Almost definitely not, right?
Is it possible?
I'm sure it is.
Is any code base I've ever worked in my
entire life in any way set up for that?
Almost definitely not cuz
they're barely set up for
me having the types match at all.
But that's it.
There's a longer rant about backends and
frontends for a different day.